Updating Workflow Definition concept (#931)
temporalio/documentation: docs/concepts/what-is-a-workflow-definition.md

A Workflow Definition is the code that defines the constraints of a Workflow Execution.

A Workflow Definition is often also referred to as a Workflow Function.

> In Temporal's documentation a Workflow Definition is more often used to refer to the source for the instance of a Workflow Execution, while a Workflow Function is the source for the instance of a Workflow Function Execution.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Temporal's documentation a Workflow Definition is used to refer to the source for the instance of a Workflow Execution, while a Workflow Function is the source for the instance of a Workflow Function Execution.
```

A Workflow Execution effectively executes once to completion while a Workflow Function Execution occurs many times during the life of a Workflow Execution.

We strongly recommend that you write a Workflow Definition in a language that has a corresponding Temporal SDK.

- [How to develop a Workflow Definition in Go](/docs/go/how-to-develop-a-workflow-definition-in-go)
- [How to develop a Workflow Definition in Java](/docs/java/how-to-develop-a-workflow-definition-in-java)
- [How to develop a Workflow Definition in PHP](/docs/php/workflows)
- [How to develop a Workflow Definition in TypeScript](/docs/typescript/workflows/#how-to-write-a-workflow-function)

### Deterministic constraints

> A very important aspect of developing Workflow Definitions is making sure they exhibit certain deterministic traits – that is, making sure that the same Commands are emitted in the same sequence whenever a corresponding Workflow Function Execution (instance of the Function Definition) is re-executed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A critical aspect of developing Workflow Definitions is ensuring they exhibit certain deterministic traits – that is, making sure that the same Commands are emitted in the same sequence, whenever a corresponding Workflow Function Execution (instance of the Function Definition) is re-executed.
```

3. Complete

When the Timer fires, the next Workflow Task will cause the Workflow Function to re-execute.
The first Command the Worker sees would be be ScheduleActivityTask Command, which wouldn't match up to the expected [TimerStarted](/docs/concepts/what-is-an-event#timerstarted] Event.

The Workflow Execution would fail, and return the non-determinism error.

The following are examples of minor changes that would not result in non-determinism errors when re-executing a History which already contain the Events:

- Changing the duration of a Timer.
- Changing the arguments to:
  - The Activity Options in a call to spawn an Activity Execution (local or nonlocal).
  - The Child Workflow Options in a call to spawn a Child Workflow Execution.
  - Call to Signal an External Workflow Execution.

#### Intrinsic non-deterministic logic

Intrinsic non-determinism is when a Workflow Function Execution might emit a different sequence of Commands on re-execution, regardless of whether all the input parameters are the same.

For example, a Workflow Definition can not have inline logic that branches (emits a different Command sequence) based off a local time setting or a random number.

> In the representative pseudocode below, the `system_clock()` function returns the local time, rather than Temporal-defined time:

Author: ```suggestion
In the representative pseudocode below, the `local_clock()` function returns the local time, rather than Temporal-defined time:
```

```text
fn my_workflow() {

>   if system_clock().is_before("12pm") {

Author: ```suggestion
  if local_clock().is_before("12pm") {
```

We strongly recommend that you write a Workflow Definition in a language that has a corresponding Temporal SDK.

> - [How to develop a Workflow Definition in Go](/docs/go/how-to-develop-a-workflow-definition-in-go)
> - [How to develop a Workflow Definition in Java](/docs/java/how-to-develop-a-workflow-definition-in-java)
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [How to develop a Workflow Definition in Go](/docs/go/how-to-develop-a-workflow-definition-in-go)
- [How to develop a Workflow Definition in Java](/docs/java/how-to-develop-a-workflow-definition-in-java)
- [How to develop a Workflow Definition in PHP](/docs/php/workflows)
- [How to develop a Workflow Definition in TypeScript](/docs/typescript/workflows/#how-to-write-a-workflow-function)

```

### Deterministic constraints

> A very important aspect of developing Workflow Definitions is making sure that the same Commands are emitted in the same order whenever a corresponding Workflow Execution (instance of the Definition) is re-executed.

Author: ```suggestion
A very important aspect of developing Workflow Definitions is making sure that the same Commands are emitted in the same order whenever a corresponding Workflow Function Execution (instance of the Function Definition) is re-executed.
```

> The execution semantics of a Workflow Execution include the re-execution of a Workflow function.

Author: ```suggestion
The execution semantics of a Workflow Execution include the re-execution of a Workflow Function.
```

> The use of Workflow APIs in the function generates the Commands.

Author: ```suggestion
The use of Workflow APIs in the function generate the Commands.
```

> The use of Workflow APIs in the function generates the Commands.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using Workflow APIs in the function generate [Commands](/docs/concepts/what-is-a-command).
```

Commands tell the Cluster what Events to create and add to the Workflow Execution's Event History.

> Whenever a Workflow function is executed, the Commands that are emitted are compared with the existing Event History.

Author: ```suggestion
Whenever a Workflow Function is executed, the Commands that are emitted are compared with the existing Event History.
```

> If a corresponding Event already exists within the Event History that maps to the generation of that Command in the same sequence, and some specific metadata of that Command matches with some specific metadata of the Event, then that Command is ignored.

Author: I got you - each re-execution becomes the source of truth.
And it progresses as far as it can utilizing the existing Event History to know when new stuff is happening that is not yet in the history.

For example, using an SDKs "Execute Activity" API generates the [ScheduleActivityTask](/docs/concepts/what-is-a-command#scheduleactivitytask) Command.
When this API is called upon re-execution, that Command is compared with the Event that is in the same location within the sequence.
The Event in the sequence must be an [ActivityTaskScheduled](/docs/concepts/what-is-an-event/#activitytaskscheduled) Event, where the Activity Name and the Task Queue name are the same as what is in the Command.

If a Command is generated that doesn't match what it needs to in the existing Event History, then the Workflow Execution will return a "non-deterministic" error.

The following are the two reasons why a Command might be generated out of sequence or the wrong Command might be generated altogether:

1. Code changes are made to a Workflow Definition that is in use by a running Workflow Execution.
2. There is intrinsic non-deterministic logic (i.e. inline random branching logic).

> #### Non-deterministic code changes

Reviewer 3: This header sounds like the code change itself is somehow done nondeterministically, where it's the code change that is causing nondeterminism.

Author: Hmmm... ya I see your point.
I can make it much more specific at the cost of length - 
I was thinking that the previous section would provide the clarifying context.

The Workflow Definition can change in very limited ways once there is a Workflow Execution depending on it.
To alleviate non-deterministic issues that arise from code changes we recommend using [Workflow Versioning](#what-is-workflow-versioning).

For example, let's say we have a Workflow Definition that defines the following sequence:

1. Start and wait on a Timer/sleep
2. Spawn and wait on an Activity Execution
3. Complete

We start a Worker and spawn a Workflow Execution that uses that Workflow Definition.
The Worker would emit the [StartTimer](/docs/concepts/what-is-a-command/#starttimer) Command and the Workflow Execution would become suspended.

> Before the Timer is up, we change the Workflow Definition the following sequence:

Author: ```suggestion
Before the Timer is up, we change the Workflow Definition to the following sequence:
```

> 1. Spawn and wait on an Activity Execcution

Author: ```suggestion
1. Spawn and wait on an Activity Execution
```

> 2. Start and wait on a timer/sleep

Author: ```suggestion
2. Start and wait on a Timer/sleep
```

3. Complete

> When the Timer fires, the next Workflow Task will cause the Workflow function to re-execute.

Author: ```suggestion
When the Timer fires, the next Workflow Task will cause the Workflow Function to re-execute.
```

> The first Command it sees would be be ScheduleActivityTask, which wouldn't match up to the expected ActivityTaskScheduled Event.

Author: ```suggestion
The first Command the Worker sees would be be ScheduleActivityTask, which wouldn't match up to the expected ActivityTaskScheduled Event.
```

> The first Command the Worker sees would be be ScheduleActivityTask Command, which wouldn't match up to the expected StartTimer Event.

Author: ```suggestion
The first Command the Worker sees would be be ScheduleActivityTask Command, which wouldn't match up to the expected [TimerStarted](/docs/concepts/what-is-an-event#timerstarted] Event.
```

The Workflow Execution would fail, and return the non-determinism error.

> There following are examples of some minor changes that would not take effect when re-executing a History which already contain the Events:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following examples list minor changes that would not take effect when re-executing a History which already contain the Events:
```

> There following are examples of some minor changes that would not take effect when re-executing a History which already contain the Events:

Reviewer 3: This is true but I think the more important thing is to say that they won't cause command mismatches / nondeterminism errors.

> There following are examples of some minor changes that would not take effect when re-executing a History which already contain the Events:

Author: ```suggestion
The following are examples of some minor changes that would not take effect when re-executing a History which already contain the Events:
```

- Changing the duration of a Timer.
- Changing the arguments to:

>   - Call to spawn an Activity Execution (local or nonlocal).
>   - Call to spawn a Child Workflow Execution.

Author: ```suggestion
  - The Activity Options in a call to spawn an Activity Execution (local or nonlocal).
  - The Child Workflow Options in a call to spawn a Child Workflow Execution.
```

  - Call to Signal an External Workflow Execution.

#### Intrinsic non-deterministic logic

> Intrinsic non-determinism is when a Workflow function might emit a different of Commands each on re-execution regardless of whether all the input parameters are the same.

Author: ```suggestion
Intrinsic non-determinism is when a Workflow Function Execution might emit a different of Commands each on re-execution regardless of whether all the input parameters are the same.
```

> Intrinsic non-determinism is when a Workflow Function Execution might emit a different of Commands each on re-execution regardless of whether all the input parameters are the same.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Intrinsic non-determinism is when a Workflow Function Execution might emit a different set of Commands on re-execution, regardless of whether all the input parameters are the same.
```

> For example, a Workflow Definition can not have inline logic that branches (emits a different Command sequence) based off a wall-clock or a random number.
> Here is some representative pseudocode:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For example, a Workflow Definition can not have inline logic that branches (emits a different Command sequence) based off wall-clock time or a random number.
Here is some representative pseudocode:
```

```text
fn my_workflow() {
  if system_clock().is_before("12pm") {
    await workflow.sleep(duration_until("12pm"))
  } else {
    await my_afternoon_activity()
  }
}

> ```

Reviewer 3: The explanation about why `system_clock` is bad from here https://github.com/temporalio/documentation/pull/916/files#diff-02a12d0b950f980b1eaa3de8d4d05567f62c19673adb2315240d8655cb494ff4R123-R127

Is pretty important I think. Someone reading this document has to understand that `system_clock` is not a temporal API (which the name tries to make clear, but isn't immediately obvious). I think we need to re-enforce that and explain what should be used. The next paragraph explains that in generic terms, but I'm worried someone reading the code sample won't immediately connect why it's bad without something more specific.

Each SDK offers APIs that enable Workflow Definitions to have logic that gets and uses time, random numbers, and data from unreliable resources.

> When those APIs are used, the results are stored as part of the Event History, which means that a re-executed Workflow function will issue the same sequence of Commands, even if there is branching involved.

Author: ```suggestion
When those APIs are used, the results are stored as part of the Event History, which means that a re-executed Workflow Function will issue the same sequence of Commands, even if there is branching involved.
```

In other words, all operations that do not purely mutate the Workflow Execution's state should occur via a Temporal SDK API.

### What is Workflow Versioning?

> Workflow Versioning is the feature that enables the creation of logical branching inside a Workflow Definition based on a developer specified version identifier.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Workflow Versioning feature enables the creation of logical branching inside a Workflow Definition based on a developer specified version identifier.
```

> The feature is intended to be used when a Workflow Definition logic needs to be updated, but there are running Workflow Executions that currently depend on it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use this feature when a Workflow Definition logic needs to be updated, but there are running Workflow Executions that currently depend on it.
```

> Use this feature when a Workflow Definition logic needs to be updated, but there are running Workflow Executions that currently depend on it.

Reviewer 3: Probably worth still at least making reference to using a new task queue, since this is what most users do for anything other than bugfixes since the versioning API is so burdensome

- [How to version Workflow Definitions in Go](/docs/go/versioning)
- [How to version Workflow Definitions in Java](/docs/java/versioning)
- [How to version Workflow Definitions in TypeScript](/docs/typescript/patching)

> **How do I handle a Worker Process failure/restart in my Workflow Definition?**

Reviewer 3: This section seems tied to workflow versioning now since it's under that header, but it's a different topic.
